[Datasets] Add PyArrow docs (#1839)
huggingface/hub-docs: docs/hub/datasets-pyarrow.md

It is especially useful for [Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/) data, since Parquet is the most common file format on Hugging Face.
Indeed, Parquet is particularly efficient thanks to its structure, typing, metadata and compression.

## Load a Table

You can load data from local files or from remote storage like Hugging Face Datasets. PyArrow supports many formats including CSV, JSON and more importantly Parquet:

```python
>>> import pyarrow.parquet as pq
>>> table = pq.read_table("path/to/data.parquet")
```

To load a file from Hugging Face, the path needs to start with `hf://`. For example, the path to the [stanfordnlp/imdb](https://huggingface.co/datasets/stanfordnlp/imdb) dataset repository is `hf://datasets/stanfordnlp/imdb`. The dataset on Hugging Face contains multiple Parquet files. The Parquet file format is designed to make reading and writing data frames efficient, and to make sharing data across data analysis languages easy. Here is how to load the file `plain_text/train-00000-of-00001.parquet` as a pyarrow Table (it requires `pyarrow>=21.0`):

> ```python

Author: wait what Oo

I might keep it that way for now for consistency and update the whole docs later if it's really a thing :o

label: [[0,0,0,0,0,...,0,0,0,0,0],...,[1,1,1,1,1,...,1,1,1,1,1]]
```

If you don't want to load the full Parquet data, you can get the Parquet metadata or load row group by row group instead:

```python
>>> import pyarrow.parquet as pq
>>> pf = pq.ParquetFile("hf://datasets/stanfordnlp/imdb/plain_text/train-00000-of-00001.parquet")
>>> pf.metadata
<pyarrow._parquet.FileMetaData object at 0x1171b4090>
  created_by: parquet-cpp-arrow version 12.0.0
  num_columns: 2
  num_rows: 25000
  num_row_groups: 25
  format_version: 2.6
  serialized_size: 62036
>>> for i in pf.num_row_groups:
...     table = pf.read_row_group(i)
...     ...
```

For more information on the Hugging Face paths and how they are implemented, please refer to the [the client library's documentation on the HfFileSystem](/docs/huggingface_hub/guides/hf_file_system).

## Save a Table

You can save a pyarrow Table using `pyarrow.parquet.write_table` to a local file or to Hugging Face directly.

To save the Table on Hugging Face, you first need to [Login with your Hugging Face account](/docs/huggingface_hub/quick-start#login), for example using:

```
huggingface-cli login
```

> Then you can [Create a dataset repository](/docs/huggingface_hub/quick-start#create-a-repository), for example using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can [create a dataset repository](/docs/huggingface_hub/quick-start#create-a-repository), for example using:
```

```python
from huggingface_hub import HfApi

HfApi().create_repo(repo_id="username/my_dataset", repo_type="dataset")
```

Finally, you can use [Hugging Face paths](/docs/huggingface_hub/guides/hf_file_system#integrations) in PyArrow:

```python
import pyarrow.parquet as pq

pq.write_table(table, "hf://datasets/username/my_dataset/imdb.parquet", use_content_defined_chunking=True)

# or write in separate files if the dataset has train/validation/test splits
pq.write_table(table_train, "hf://datasets/username/my_dataset/train.parquet", use_content_defined_chunking=True)
pq.write_table(table_valid, "hf://datasets/username/my_dataset/validation.parquet", use_content_defined_chunking=True)
pq.write_table(table_test , "hf://datasets/username/my_dataset/test.parquet", use_content_defined_chunking=True)
```

> We use `use_content_defined_chunking=True` to enable faster uploads and downloads from Hugging Face thanks to Xet deduplication (it requires `pyarrow>=21.0`).

Reviewer 2: do you think we could ask them to turn it on by default?

Author: hard to say, wdyt @kszucs ?

Reviewer 3: Maybe in case of a `hf://` URI but that could be fragile to implement since filesystem objects can be passed as well. 
I would rather consider the `flavor` argument https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/generated/pyarrow.parquet.write_table.html

```py
pq.write_table(table_test , "hf://datasets/username/my_dataset/test.parquet", flavor="huggingface")
```

Reviewer 3: Also note that CDC has a slight performance overhead, so turning it on by default would make sense if we can infer that the targeted filesystem can use it for deduplication.

<Tip>

Content defined chunking (CDC) makes the Parquet writer chunk the data pages in a way that makes duplicate data chunked and compressed identically.
Without CDC, the pages are arbitrarily chunked and therefore duplicate data are impossible to detect because of compression.
Thanks to CDC, Parquet uploads and downloads from Hugging Face are faster, since duplicate data are uploaded or downloaded only once.

</Tip>

Find more information about Xet [here](https://huggingface.co/join/xet).

## Use Images

You can load a folder with a metadata file containing a field for the names or paths to the images, structured like this:

```
Example 1:            Example 2:
folder/               folder/
├── metadata.parquet  ├── metadata.parquet
├── img000.png        └── images
├── img001.png            ├── img000.png
...                       ...
└── imgNNN.png            └── imgNNN.png
```

You can iterate on the images paths like this:

```python
from pathlib import Path
import pyarrow as pq

folder_path = Path("path/to/folder")
table = pq.read_table(folder_path + "metadata.parquet")
for file_name in table["file_name"].to_pylist():
    image_path = folder_path / file_name
    ...
```

> Since the dataset is in a [supported structure](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/datasets-image#additional-columns) (a `metadata.parquet` file with a `file_name` field), you can save this dataset to Hugging Face and the Dataset Viewer shows both the metadata and images on Hugging Face.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the dataset is in a [supported structure](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/datasets-image#additional-columns) (a `metadata.parquet` file with a `file_name` field), you can save this dataset to Hugging Face and the Dataset Viewer shows both the metadata and images.
```
redundant? (not sure)

api = HfApi()

api.upload_folder(
    folder_path=folder_path,
    repo_id="username/my_image_dataset",
    repo_type="dataset",
)
```

### Embed Images inside Parquet

PyArrow has a binary type which allows to have the images bytes in Arrow tables. Therefore it enables saving the dataset as one single Parquet file containing both the images (bytes and path) and the samples metadata:

```python
import pyarrow as pa
import pyarrow.parquet as pq

# Embed the image bytes in Arrow
image_array = pa.array([
    {
        "bytes": (folder_path / file_name).read_bytes(),
        "path": file_name,
    }
    for file_name in table["file_name"].to_pylist()
])
table.append_column("image", image_array)

# (Optional) Set the HF Image type for the Dataset Viewer and the `datasets` library
features = {"image": {"_type": "Image"}}  # or using datasets.Features(...).to_dict()
schema_metadata = {"huggingface": {"dataset_info": {"features": features}}}
table = table.replace_schema_metadata(schema_metadata)

# Save to Parquet
# (Optional) with use_content_defined_chunking for faster uploads and downloads
# (Optional) with row_group_size to allow loading 100 images at a time

> pq.write_table(table, "data.parquet", use_content_defined_chunking=True, row_group_size=100)

Reviewer 3: We shouldn't recommend small `row_group_size` values because such a small value effectively disables the benefits of parquet CDC.

## Use Audios

You can load a folder with a metadata file containing a field for the names or paths to the audios, structured like this:

```
Example 1:            Example 2:
folder/               folder/
├── metadata.parquet  ├── metadata.parquet
├── rec000.wav        └── audios
├── rec001.wav            ├── rec000.wav
...                       ...
└── recNNN.wav            └── recNNN.wav
```

You can iterate on the audios paths like this:

```python
from pathlib import Path
import pyarrow as pq

folder_path = Path("path/to/folder")
table = pq.read_table(folder_path + "metadata.parquet")
for file_name in table["file_name"].to_pylist():
    audio_path = folder_path / file_name
    ...
```

Since the dataset is in a [supported structure](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/datasets-audio#additional-columns) (a `metadata.parquet` file with a `file_name` field), you can save it to Hugging Face, and the Hub Dataset Viewer shows both the metadata and audio. 

```python
from huggingface_hub import HfApi
api = HfApi()

api.upload_folder(
    folder_path=folder_path,
    repo_id="username/my_audio_dataset",
    repo_type="dataset",
)
```

> ### Embed Audios inside Parquet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Embed Audio inside Parquet
```

> PyArrow has a binary type which allows to have the audios bytes in Arrow tables. Therefore it enables saving the dataset as one single Parquet file containing both the audios (bytes and path) and the samples metadata:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PyArrow has a binary type which allows for having audio bytes in Arrow tables. Therefore, it enables saving the dataset as one single Parquet file containing both the audio (bytes and path) and the samples metadata:
```

```python
import pyarrow as pa
import pyarrow.parquet as pq

# Embed the audio bytes in Arrow
audio_array = pa.array([
    {
        "bytes": (folder_path / file_name).read_bytes(),
        "path": file_name,
    }
    for file_name in table["file_name"].to_pylist()
])
table.append_column("audio", audio_array)

# (Optional) Set the HF Audio type for the Dataset Viewer and the `datasets` library
features = {"audio": {"_type": "Audio"}}  # or using datasets.Features(...).to_dict()
schema_metadata = {"huggingface": {"dataset_info": {"features": features}}}
table = table.replace_schema_metadata(schema_metadata)

# Save to Parquet
# (Optional) with use_content_defined_chunking for faster uploads and downloads
# (Optional) with row_group_size to allow loading 100 audios at a time
pq.write_table(table, "data.parquet", use_content_defined_chunking=True, row_group_size=100)
```

> Setting the Audio type in the Arrow schema metadata allows other libraries and the Hugging Face Dataset Viewer to know that "audio" contains audios and not just binary data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting the Audio type in the Arrow schema metadata enables other libraries and the Hugging Face Dataset Viewer to recognise that "audio" contains audio data, not just binary data.
```
